
=======================================================

Article Title: 5 rules to learn to code
Author Name: Vishal Kumar
Author Profile: https://github.com/LahsivK4070
Date: 29-10-2021

=======================================================

5 rules to learn code

1)Trick Your Brain with the 20 min Rule: 

Tell yourself
that you are just going to do 20 minutes of coding practice, you will most
likely succeed and use your own inertia to end up learning for an hour or
more. No brain will perceive a 20-minute task as a lot of effort and you end
up tricking your brain to take advantage of your evening.

2)There is No “Perfect Language to Learn”:

There is this common perception that somewhere out there lies a perfect language for
beginner programmers.A programming language is simply a tool. So, decide on the task
that you are trying to accomplish, then pick the best tool for that task.

3)Be a Copycat:

Lacking in ideas? Be a copycat. Make your own notepad, make your own
MSPaint, make your own piano. If you’re into games, make minesweeper,
make Tetris, make Flappy Bird. Not only will they be sort-of useful, but
they’ll also be the perfect opportunity for you to figure out how to do things
and get experience in finding help.By making copycat apps or programs, you’ll 
be treading in the path that many have walked before you. This way you maximise 
the chances that someone will be able to offer you help and advice when you get stuck.

4)Be Accountable:

Be accountable to someone. Show your work.Let’s face it, internal motivation is not 
strong in any of us. We can always find a reason why we deserve to “Netflix and chill”.
Try and find ways of getting assessed. But when learning anything, it’s always important to
get feedback. You will get an objective assessment of your current skill level,
instead of feeling like an imposter or brimming with false confidence.

5)Never copy and paste a code you don't understand:
 
On a site like StackOverflow, it can be very tempting to just copy and
paste the code that someone has provided. Your program works exactly as
you hoped it would and off you go on your merry programming ways. This
exercise didn’t teach you anything other than code reliance. Because the
next time you encounter the same problem but in a different situation, that
same code snippet that someone provided may not work anymore.So, never copypaste code
that you don’t understand






